Sports—they can be good for you.
In fact, at 1 Timothy 4:8,
the Bible says that
“physical exercise is beneficial.” (Ftn.)
Sports can teach you vital skills,
including how to cooperate
and communicate with others.
But sports can also be bad for you.
It all depends on what you play,
how you play,
and how much you play.
Consider what you play.
At Psalm 11:5, the Bible reminds us
that God “hates anyone who loves violence.”
And some sports are clearly violent.
So ask yourself,
‘Does it make sense to be entertained
by watching others get knocked around?’
Next, consider how you play.
At Philippians 2:3, the Bible says:
“Do nothing out of contentiousness
or out of egotism,
but with humility
consider others superior to you.”
Of course, nearly every sport
involves a degree of competition.
But a win-at-all-costs attitude
will just take the fun out of the game.
And besides, at Proverbs 16:18,
the Bible says that
“pride is before a crash.”
So ask yourself:
‘Do I enjoy playing with overly competitive
and prideful people?
Then why would I want to be like that?’
Finally, consider how much you play sports
—or even watch.
At Philippians 1:10, the Bible says:
“Make sure of the more important things.”
That’s good advice because, let’s face it,
putting too much emphasis on sports
is like putting too much salt on your food.
If you spend too much time watching
or playing sports,
other things in your life will suffer.
That includes your family life,
school grades,
and the time you need to devote to worship.
In the end, sports shouldn’t be
the most important thing in your life.
Instead, think of it as the reward you get
for taking care
of your responsibilities first.
That way,
you really get the benefits of sports
and avoid the pitfalls.